# Acute-Lymphoblastic-Leukaemia-Classification
Improvement of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia Classification by Using Convolutional Neural Network with Squeeze and Excitation Networks

      Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a type of blood cancer. It starts from white blood cells called lymphocytes in the bone marrow. In this research, we proposed CNN classification model along with squeeze-and-excitation method to detect PBS images and to classify leukaemia cases. The proposed model is tested on a publicly available ALL dataset, comprising 3562 PBS images from 89 patients suspected of ALL, including 25 healthy individuals with a benign diagnosis (hematogone) and 64 patients with a definitive diagnosis of ALL subtypes. The model exhibits good results and can be utilized to make a reliable computer-aided diagnosis of leukaemia cancer. We proposed an improvement of the deep learning model for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia classification by using squeeze-and-excitation learning. The squeeze-and-excitation operation enables the model to extract strong, relevant and discriminative features from four categories: Benign, Early pre-B, Pre-B and Pro-B. Then, the proposed model shows promising results when compared to the traditional deep learning models and the results are 99.28% for training accuracy, 97.85% for testing accuracy and 98.10% for recall respectively and it takes only less than 20 minutes to run the whole process. Finally, this model can help in reducing time consuming, can help in classification of ALL more easily and more accurate, can help highly experienced laboratory staff not to have mistaken of cases for cancers and hematogones, and can help the specialists in reducing the fatigue daily experienced by them.
      
Kaggle Dataset > https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mehradaria/leukemia
